README.md, before:

# The TurboGAP code

**TurboGAP** (c) 2018-2021 by **Miguel A. Caro** and others (see "contributors" below
for detailed authorship info).

[www.turbogap.fi](http://www.turbogap.fi)

## Contributors, copyright and license

The following people, listed chronologically, have contributed code or ideas to the **TurboGAP**
code. Those whose names are in bold have contributed code *to the master branch* (relevant for
purpose of copyright; each file in the **TurboGAP** repo that contains code has a copyright
statement at the beginning).

* **Miguel A. Caro** (Aalto University)
* Patricia Hernández-León (Aalto University)
* Suresh Kondati Natarajan (now @ QuantumWise, formerly @ Aalto)
* **Albert P. Bartók-Pártay** (Warwick University)
* Eelis V. Mielonen (now @ EPFL, formerly @ Aalto)
* **Heikki Muhli** (Aalto University)
* **Mikhail Kuklin** (Aalto University)
* Gábor Csányi (University of Cambridge)

**TurboGAP** is licensed under the Academic Software License (ASL), an "available source"
non-commercial license. This means that you are free to use and distribute the code for
non-commercial academic research (or teaching) under the terms of the license. See
`LICENSE.md` for details. If you want to obtain a commercial license for **TurboGAP**, please
contact Miguel Caro (mcaroba@gmail.com).

Some third-party code is included with **TurboGAP** for convenience, under the
`src/third_party` directory. These codes are licensed independently from **TurboGAP** and their
respective licenses have been verified to be compatible for redistribution with **TurboGAP**.
They may be redistributed separately from **TurboGAP** under their respective licenses.
Refer to each piece of software in that subdirectory for further information.

The **GAP_turbo** submodule, under `src/GAP_turbo`, is a separate distribution from
**TurboGAP**, but it is required
for running **TurboGAP**, since it contains the `soap_turbo` routines. These routines are
copyright (c) of Miguel A. Caro and they are also distributed under the ASL. Therefore, you
can freely use this code for non-commercial academic research or teaching. If you want to
obtain a commercial license for **GAP_turbo** please contact Miguel Caro (mcaroba@gmail.com).

## Overview of the code

The **TurboGAP** code consists of a series of Fortran routines written by Dr. Miguel A. Caro
and others. These routines are designed to efficiently and
accurately build many-body atomic descriptors and carry out other related computations
employed in machine-learning approaches to atomistic modeling, such as to run molecular
dynamics simulations. The main current functionality is the computation of SOAP-type
descriptors [1], which were originally introduced by Bartók, Csányi et al. [2] in the
context of the Gaussian Approximation Potential framework [3].

**TurboGAP** is a primitive but efficient interface to the **GAP_turbo** library.
This native interface is currently restricted to limited functionality but reasonably
fast (can outperform QUIP+LAMMPS in most situations); however it may be buggy, is
undocumented, and can be "temperamental". If you want to use
**GAP_turbo** routines to run molecular dynamics or to carry out other simulations involving
heavy use of CPU power, without the worries of using the native interface, you are advised to
use QUIP. However, some new or experimental features (e.g.,
full support for van der Waals corrections) may only be available via the native interface.
If you're feeling adventurous, and know what you're doing, you are more than welcome to
use the **TurboGAP** interface, and feedback can be sent to Miguel Caro (mcaroba@gmail.com)
or left on the Issues section of the Github page.

[1] M.A. Caro. [Phys. Rev. B 100, 024112
(2019)](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.100.024112).  
[2] A.P. Bartók, R. Kondor, G. Csányi. [Phys. Rev. B 87, 184115
(2013)](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.87.184115).  
[3] A.P. Bartók, M.C. Payne, R. Kondor, G. Csányi. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 136403
(2010)](https://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.104.136403).

## Installation

*For more detailed info on download, installation, etc., you can visit the
[TurboGAP wiki](https://turbogap.fi/wiki/index.php/Installation).*

To get the **TurboGAP** code and the necessary **GAP_turbo** routines, do a recursive
`git clone`:

    git clone --recursive http://github.com/mcaroba/turbogap.git /turbogap/source/directory

Where `/turbogap/source/directory` is the directory where you're putting the **TurboGAP**
source code. To build the **TubogGAP** binary and library, edit the `Makefile` to fit
your system and just type

    make

Then add `/turbogap/source/directory/bin/` to your path. If you need to rebuild the code,
you can `make clean; make` or `make deepclean; make`.

## Running TurboGAP

**TurboGAP** can be used to run static (single-point) calculations (`turbogap predict`) or
molecular dynamics (`turbogap md`). For details, documentation and up-to-date information
refer to the [TurboGAP wiki](http://turbogap.fi).

## Attribution

When using **TurboGAP**, you should give attribution to the
**TurboGAP** author(s). The appropriate way to do that is to provide a link to the
[**TurboGAP** website](https://www.turbogap.fi) and, if you publish results obtained
using **TurboGAP** or the **GAP_turbo** library,
even if it is through one of its external interfaces, you should cite:

>**Miguel A. Caro**. *Optimizing many-body atomic descriptors for enhanced computational
>performance of machine learning based interatomic potentials*. [Phys. Rev. B 100, 024112
>(2019)](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.100.024112).

In addition, you should cite any other relevant literature and code websites (e.g., the
original SOAP/GAP papers) as appropriate.

Commit message:

GAP_turbo changed to soap_turbo (bis)

README.md, after:

# The TurboGAP code

**TurboGAP** (c) 2018-2021 by **Miguel A. Caro** and others (see "contributors" below
for detailed authorship info).

[www.turbogap.fi](http://www.turbogap.fi)

## Contributors, copyright and license

The following people, listed chronologically, have contributed code or ideas to the **TurboGAP**
code. Those whose names are in bold have contributed code *to the master branch* (relevant for
purpose of copyright; each file in the **TurboGAP** repo that contains code has a copyright
statement at the beginning).

* **Miguel A. Caro** (Aalto University)
* Patricia Hernández-León (Aalto University)
* Suresh Kondati Natarajan (now @ QuantumWise, formerly @ Aalto)
* **Albert P. Bartók-Pártay** (Warwick University)
* Eelis V. Mielonen (now @ EPFL, formerly @ Aalto)
* **Heikki Muhli** (Aalto University)
* **Mikhail Kuklin** (Aalto University)
* Gábor Csányi (University of Cambridge)

**TurboGAP** is licensed under the Academic Software License (ASL), an "available source"
non-commercial license. This means that you are free to use and distribute the code for
non-commercial academic research (or teaching) under the terms of the license. See
`LICENSE.md` for details. If you want to obtain a commercial license for **TurboGAP**, please
contact Miguel Caro (mcaroba@gmail.com).

Some third-party code is included with **TurboGAP** for convenience, under the
`src/third_party` directory. These codes are licensed independently from **TurboGAP** and their
respective licenses have been verified to be compatible for redistribution with **TurboGAP**.
They may be redistributed separately from **TurboGAP** under their respective licenses.
Refer to each piece of software in that subdirectory for further information.

The **soap_turbo** submodule, under `src/soap_turbo`, is a separate distribution from
**TurboGAP**, but it is required
for running **TurboGAP**, since it contains the `soap_turbo` routines. These routines are
copyright (c) of Miguel A. Caro and they are also distributed under the ASL. Therefore, you
can freely use this code for non-commercial academic research or teaching. If you want to
obtain a commercial license for **soap_turbo** please contact Miguel Caro (mcaroba@gmail.com).

## Overview of the code

The **TurboGAP** code consists of a series of Fortran routines written by Dr. Miguel A. Caro
and others. These routines are designed to efficiently and
accurately build many-body atomic descriptors and carry out other related computations
employed in machine-learning approaches to atomistic modeling, such as to run molecular
dynamics simulations. The main current functionality is the computation of SOAP-type
descriptors [1], which were originally introduced by Bartók, Csányi et al. [2] in the
context of the Gaussian Approximation Potential framework [3].

**TurboGAP** is a primitive but efficient interface to the **soap_turbo** library.
This native interface is currently restricted to limited functionality but reasonably
fast (can outperform QUIP+LAMMPS in most situations); however it may be buggy, is
undocumented, and can be "temperamental". If you want to use
**soap_turbo** routines to run molecular dynamics or to carry out other simulations involving
heavy use of CPU power, without the worries of using the native interface, you are advised to
use QUIP. However, some new or experimental features (e.g.,
full support for van der Waals corrections) may only be available via the native interface.
If you're feeling adventurous, and know what you're doing, you are more than welcome to
use the **TurboGAP** interface, and feedback can be sent to Miguel Caro (mcaroba@gmail.com)
or left on the Issues section of the Github page.

[1] M.A. Caro. [Phys. Rev. B 100, 024112
(2019)](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.100.024112).  
[2] A.P. Bartók, R. Kondor, G. Csányi. [Phys. Rev. B 87, 184115
(2013)](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.87.184115).  
[3] A.P. Bartók, M.C. Payne, R. Kondor, G. Csányi. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 136403
(2010)](https://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.104.136403).

## Installation

*For more detailed info on download, installation, etc., you can visit the
[TurboGAP wiki](https://turbogap.fi/wiki/index.php/Installation).*

To get the **TurboGAP** code and the necessary **soap_turbo** routines, do a recursive
`git clone`:

    git clone --recursive http://github.com/mcaroba/turbogap.git /turbogap/source/directory

Where `/turbogap/source/directory` is the directory where you're putting the **TurboGAP**
source code. To build the **TubogGAP** binary and library, edit the `Makefile` to fit
your system and just type

    make

Then add `/turbogap/source/directory/bin/` to your path. If you need to rebuild the code,
you can `make clean; make` or `make deepclean; make`.

## Running TurboGAP

**TurboGAP** can be used to run static (single-point) calculations (`turbogap predict`) or
molecular dynamics (`turbogap md`). For details, documentation and up-to-date information
refer to the [TurboGAP wiki](http://turbogap.fi).

## Attribution

When using **TurboGAP**, you should give attribution to the
**TurboGAP** author(s). The appropriate way to do that is to provide a link to the
[**TurboGAP** website](https://www.turbogap.fi) and, if you publish results obtained
using **TurboGAP** or the **soap_turbo** library,
even if it is through one of its external interfaces, you should cite:

>**Miguel A. Caro**. *Optimizing many-body atomic descriptors for enhanced computational
>performance of machine learning based interatomic potentials*. [Phys. Rev. B 100, 024112
>(2019)](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.100.024112).

In addition, you should cite any other relevant literature and code websites (e.g., the
original SOAP/GAP papers) as appropriate.
